Rdt weight sync (#43375)
vllm-project/vllm: docs/training/weight_transfer/base.md

Reviewer: Nit: Add a small note on `defers_processing` and `drain_pending` here? Can probably link to the RDT doc as well

### WeightSource

**This is the adapter for whatever shape your trainer's weights are in.**

> `WeightSource` is the seam where a framework is adapted once, after which *every*

Reviewer: Can we not call this a seam lol? 

It's just an iterator API that trainers can implement to adopt vLLM's native weight transfer engines.

i feel like CC makes docs look like marketing material

framework-specific export, a re-fusing step, a dtype cast.

```python
from vllm.distributed.weight_transfer import ParamMeta, WeightSource

class MegatronBridgeSource(WeightSource):
    """Megatron model -> HF names, via a bridge that gathers TP/PP/EP internally
    and returns full tensors on every rank."""

    def __init__(self, bridge, module, dtype):
        self._bridge, self._module, self._dtype = bridge, module, dtype
        self._meta: list[ParamMeta] | None = None

    def _export(self):
        return self._bridge.export_hf_weights(self._module)

    def metadata(self) -> list[ParamMeta]:
        # Cache: for producers that must materialize to learn shapes, this is
        # the expensive channel. Runs on every rank (it may be a collective).
        if self._meta is None:
            self._meta = [
                ParamMeta(name, self._dtype, tuple(t.shape))
                for name, t in self._export()
            ]
        return self._meta

    def __iter__(self):
        # Must yield exactly what metadata() declared, in the same order.
        for name, tensor in self._export():
            yield name, tensor.to(self._dtype).detach().contiguous()
```

> #### `held_names()`: partial ownership

Reviewer: There should be a caveat with the `held_names` API right? 

We should mention that not all weight transfer engines are compatible with partial owership i.e cases like PP-local gather. 

What if I implement a custom WeightSource with the current NCCLBroadcast Weight transfer engine where I do PP local gather on the trainer? That is obviously incorrect, but the docs make this look like we can just use this WeightSource with any weight transfer engine

By default every rank is assumed to be able to produce every parameter — which is
what the source above does, since its bridge gathers across all parallelism before
yielding. That is simple and always correct, but it means the gather cost is paid
in full on every rank.

Override `held_names()` when the ranks are split so each holds only part of the
model, and you would rather *not* gather across that split. It returns the
parameter names this rank holds (or `None`, the default, for all of them):

```python
def held_names(self):
    # This pipeline stage's layers, and within them only this EP rank's experts.
    return self._my_stage_names - self._foreign_expert_names
```

> One declaration covers every layout — pipeline stages (a rank holds some layers),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This covers various trainer layouts - pipeline stages (a rank holds some layers),
```

partition `metadata()` into **gather groups**. `layerwise_groups` keys each name
on the **outermost index segment** it contains, so **a group is one decoder
layer**, with runs of un-indexed names (the embeddings, the final norm,
`lm_head`) forming groups of their own where they appear:

```text
group 0     model.embed_tokens.weight
group 1     model.layers.0.*          <- one decoder layer
group 2     model.layers.1.*
...
group N+1   model.norm.weight, lm_head.weight
```

Keying on the index rather than a literal prefix means no per-architecture table:
`model.layers.0.`, `model.language_model.layers.0.` (recent Qwen text
checkpoints), `transformer.h.0.` (GPT-2, Falcon), `backbone.layers.0.` (Mamba)
and a vision tower's `visual.blocks.0.` all partition the same way. The index
taken is the *outermost* one, which keeps a MoE layer whole — a per-expert name
like `model.layers.3.mlp.experts.7.w1` keys on the layer, not the expert.

Group index *g* means the same layer on every rank and every consumer, because
every side derives it from one rank's `metadata()`. That agreement is what lets a
backend bound its buffers to one layer and free a layer once everyone is done

> with it.

Reviewer: > Group index *g* means the same layer on every rank and every consumer, because
every side derives it from one rank's `metadata()`

Is this true in general ? For custom weight sources implemented by the user?

Author: yes, we constrain that metadata() returns the same thing for all ranks

    The sharded-RDT engine frees a group as soon as its last chunk lands, so a
    module split across groups would park a pull until the stall watchdog fires.
    The default partition guarantees this; a `groups()` override must preserve
    it.

Two hooks follow from this, both with working defaults:

- **`groups()`** — this rank's groups, in metadata order. The default is
  `layerwise_groups(metadata())` restricted to the groups holding at least one
  held name. A group with nothing held here is skipped entirely.
- **`iter_groups()`** — the same stream, batched one group at a time. The default
  drives `__iter__` and batches its output, checking that names arrive in metadata
  order. Override it when your framework can produce a whole group in one step:
  materializing is usually a collective, and driving it per group rather than per
  tensor turns ~37k generator resumes into ~95 on a per-expert MoE model.

Because `metadata()` order defines the partition, **all names sharing a layer
index must be contiguous in it**. A source whose natural export order interleaves
layers — bucketing all the MoE experts together, say — has to reorder before

> returning. Sharded RDT rejects a source that does not, at `trainer_init`.

Reviewer: Let's try to leave sharded RDT specific details out of the base class documentation
